the Breaking Bad spin-off movie El
Camino is about to premiere so if you
don't have time to rewatch the entirety
of Breaking Bad to refresh your memory
don't worry we've got you covered this
is a Breaking Bad full series recap that
should fill you in on everything you
need to know because El Camino is
centered on the Jesse Pinkman character
this recap will focus mainly on what
happened to Jesse throughout Breaking
Bad but will still hit the pivotal
moments for all of your favorite
characters Breaking Bad begins with the
high school chemistry teacher Walter
White learning that he has inoperable
lung cancer looking for a way to provide
for his family financially after his
passing Walt is inspired to try his hand
at cooking meth
after learning about it from his DEA
brother-in-law Hank Hank is currently
trying to track down an infamous meth
cook known as Captain Cook and it turns
out that the captain is none other than
Walter White's former student Jesse
Pinkman Walt and Jesse enter into a
business partnership that would have
Walt overseeing the meth production
while Jesse used his dealer connections
to sell their product and that product
dubbed blue sky becomes highly popular
due to its 99.1% chemically pure
properties they do their meth cooking in
an RV purchased from a man named old Joe
but things go wrong pretty immediately
when a deal gone wrong forces Walt to
reluctantly kill drug dealers Emilio and
krazy-8 and gets Jesse to help him
dissolve their bodies in hydrofluoric
acid the traumatic event causes Walt and
Jesse to briefly go their separate ways
but after getting kicked out of his
parents house and failing to recreate
the perfect blue sky formula with his
friends Badger and skinny Pete Jesse
returns to Walt Walt still needing the
money for his family after his eventual
death agrees to reform their partnership
from here their meth Empire begins to
blow up quickly dominating the
Albuquerque drug scene
this puts blue sky on Hank and the DEA s
radar Jesse and Walt now using the alias
Heisenberg partner up with a ruthless
Mexican drug lord named Tuco to help
with their distribution as the DEA
closes in on Tuco he grows more paranoid
and poses a violent threat to Walt and
Jesse the pair managed to escape Tuco's
grasp and the kingpin is killed by Hank
of the DEA
after this incident jesse falls on hard
times but manages to start putting his
life back together he moves into a new
duplex and begins a relationship with
his neighborhood
Jane a recovering addict after Jessie's
drug-dealing friend combo shot and
killed he turns to a newly relapsed Jane
who introduces him to heroin
Walton Jesse's criminal lawyer Saul
Goodman put them in contact with a new
potential distributor Gus fring Jessie
nearly ruins the new business
partnership by showing up to their first
meeting high on heroin but Walt manages
to close the deal after being paid by
Gus Walt decides to withhold Jesse's
half of the money until Jesse checks
himself into rehab and gets clean Jane
blackmails Walt into giving Jesse his
cut of the money
but when Walt finds it overdosing Jane
choking on her own vomit he decides to
watch and let her die Jesse unaware of
Watts presence at the time of Jane's
death blames himself and is emotionally
destroyed Walt uses this opportunity to
check Jessie into rehab Jesse emerges
from rehab clean and sober meanwhile
Walt agrees to cook his meth for Gus in
the kingpins underground super lab
Walt's new assistant is a man installed
by gus named Gale bedecker eventually
what convinces Gus to fire Gale so he
could bring Jesse back into the fold the
only problem is Jesse begins acting more
and more erratic things go from bad to
worse when Jesse discovers that the
people responsible for his friend combos
death were dealers working for Gus Walt
and Gus worked together to try to talk
Jesse down but he drives to the dealers
gun drawn to confront them
Walt arrives at the scene kills the
dealers and tells Jesse to run this
obviously in Burien to reinstate scale
as Walt's assistant and sends men to
hunt Jesse down Walt begins to suspect
that once Gayle perfects Walt's blue sky
recipe he and Jesse will be disposable
to Gus so as Gus's muscle Mike brings
Walt in to face certain death he assures
Gus he'd better hold off because at that
moment Jesse is murdering poor Gail
bedecker ensuring Walt and Jesse were
the only people who could deliver the
perfect blue sky product Walt and Jesse
go back to work for Gus but both are
traumatized and scared of their current
situation to make matters worse hank is
looking into gales murder which could
incriminate Walt and Jesse as what tries
to scheme a way to take out Gus Jesse
spends his time partying and doing drugs
trying to numb himself of his feelings
over murder and Gale Walt tries to
pressure Jesse into poisoning Gus with
ricin but Jesse can't bring himself to
do it
when Gus begins to feel the heat from a
rival cartel led by Hector Salamanca
he turns to Jesse to help him
more blues guy Jesse asked walk for help
and recreating blue sky in an effort to
prevent an all-out cartel war and his
possible death but what accuses Jesse of
conspiring with Gus to kill him this
leads to a huge fight between the two
former partners jesse travels with Gus
and Mike to Mexico to meet with the
rival cartel where Gus poisons them all
Walt is left feeling out of the loop and
grows more concerned that Gus will have
him killed if he's expendable when Walt
turns to Jesse for help
Jesse rejects him Gus has Walt taken
into the middle of the desert where he
is fired and threatened Gus is going to
have Hank killed and if Walt tries to
intervene then Gus will turn his sights
on Walt's family well it goes to his
criminal lawyer Saul who puts him in
touch with a disappear who for a large
sum of money can safely relocate Walt
and his family and get them new
identities while agrees to pay the
disappear then make sure to alert the
DEA of the threat on Hanks life when
Wolk owes to retrieve the money needed
to pay the disappear he discovers that
his wife Skyler had already given the
money away knowing that Hank of the DEA
had been tipped off by wall Gus was now
going to come after Walt's family
knowing he was out of options with
nothing to lose Walt once again turns
his focus to killing Gus Walt leases
Brock the son of Jesse's girlfriend
Andrea with enough poison to
hospitalized him what convinces Jesse it
was Gus's doing to further turn them
against each other Jesse believes Walt
and agrees to help take Gus down they
devise a plan to use Gus's rival the
ailing Hector Salamanca to kill Gus once
and for all when Gus visits Hector to
kill him
Hector turns the table on Gus and blows
them both up using a bomb that Walton
rigged - Hector's wheelchair following
Gus's death Walt and Jesse enter a new
partnership with Mike the three men are
assisted by one of Gus's former contacts
Lydia the team begins cooking meth under
the guise of a pest control company they
bought from a man named IRA the DEA
learned a former Gus employees that are
currently incarcerated Walt and Lydia
are worried the prisoners will talk and
criminate them so they want to have the
prisoners killed Mike pushes back on
this idea and instead wants to use money
from their new meth operation to give to
the prisoners to silence them the entire
meth operation is derailed when the team
runs out of the vital ingredient
methylamine so Walt Jesse and Mike and
new team member Todd stage a train heist
to steal methylamine the heist is almost
undone when
boy witnesses them but Todd coldly kills
the boy to avoid being caught this is
something that greatly disturbed Jesse
more disturbing - Jessie how little it
seemed to disturb Walt so Jessie might
decide they won out and will just sell
out their share of the methylamine -
deep pocketed meth distributor Declan
Walt undercuts them and comes to his own
agreement with Declan though he does
come up with a severance for Mike but
not all is good for Mike as he still
refuses to give up the names of Gus's
former employees in a fit of rage
Walt murders might can ends up getting
the names from Lydia Walt hires Todd's
white supremacist leader Uncle Jack to
take care of the prisoners while
striking a new overseas distribution
deal with Lydia the Nets have an insane
amount of money
Walt delivers Jesse his cut of the money
and finally decides to retire to focus
on his family except Hank finally makes
a startling connection that Walter White
is in fact Heisenberg jesse has once
again become emotionally closed off and
distraught following all the series
previous events even suspects Walt had a
hand in Mike's death
feeling guilty and unworthy of the money
he begins giving it away which puts him
on the DA's radar Jesse partners up with
Hank and his DEA partner Gomez to bring
down Walt
meanwhile Walt agrees to help teach Todd
how to cook blue sky for Lydia's new
operation in exchange for uncle Jack's
help in killing Jesse Jesse Hank and
Gomez trick Walt into leading them to
his stash of money in the middle of the
desert which is crucial evidence that
Hank will need in putting loss away
knowing he's been lured into a trap Walt
calls for the help of uncle Jack's white
supremacist gang upon realizing it's
just Jesse Hank and Gomez
he tells jack to stand down and accepts
his fate Walt is arrested but Jack and
his gang show up anyway an open fire
despite Walt's pleas for them not to
Gomez a hanker killed Jack and his gang
take Watts money and they take Jesse
prisoner forcing him to cook blue sky
for them when Jesse tries to escape
Todd kills Andrea and threatens to kill
Brock next if Jesse doesn't do what they
say
Walt leaves town via the disappear and
several months pass his cancer is
getting worse and his family wants
nothing to do with him after learning
the blue sky still being manufactured
and distributed Walt decides to return
to Albuquerque to put an end to
everything well it pays a visit to Lydia
where he see
poisons her with ricin at night he
arrives as their white supremacist
compound his car containing a device he
had rigged up earlier Walt accuses Jack
of partnering with Jesse to make blue
sky but Jack reveals a dirty and scarred
Jesse has been a slave this entire time
forced to produce blue sky for Lydia and
the white supremacists
Walt feigns anger and tackles Jesse to
the ground then triggers the device in
his car and mounted m60 machine gun
which opens fire on the neo-nazis Jack
and Walt are struck by bullets but Todd
and Jesse are unscathed
Jesse manages to strangle Todd to death
and Walt shoots Jack dead as the series
comes to a close Walt and Jesse part
ways for a final time with Walt staying
behind and succumbing to his bullet
wounds while Jesse drives away laughing
and crying hysterically but what is
going to happen to Jesse Pinkman next
we'll have to watch El Camino to find
out let us know your favorite Breaking
Bad moments in the comments below if you
found this video helpful hitting those
like and subscribe buttons would be
greatly appreciated see you in the next
one